smash banh mi tacos
* 		Author: Kate PhillipsTotal Time: 20 minutesYield: 4 servings 1xDiet: Low Calorie
Easy, speedy smash banh mi tacos are a WONDERFUL twist on the smashed tacotrend. All that bright, zesty banh mi flavor, in a very fun new form. They use everyday ingredients so they’re ready to slot into your weekly menu rotation and are also FAB for dinner parties.
INGREDIENTS
UNITS USM
SCALE
1x
2x
3x
For the tacos –
* 		1lb/500g ground chicken
* 		3 scallions (spring onions), finely chopped
* 		3 garlic cloves, crushed
* 		1-inch piece of ginger, grated
* 		1 tablespoon fish sauce
* 		1 teaspoon salt
* 		10 mini tortillas
* 		1 carrot, julienned
* 		1 cucumber, julienned
* 		3 tablespoons olive oil
* 		A handful of fresh mint leaves
* 		A handful of fresh cilantro (coriander)
* 		A handful of Thai basil
* 		1/4 cup toasted cashew nuts, crushed
* 		1/4 cup spicy mayo
For the Vietnamese nuoc cham dressing –
* 		3 tablespoons fish sauce
* 		2 tablespoons rice vinegar (or white wine vinegar)
* 		2 tablespoons lime juice
* 		1 tablespoon sugar
* 		1 red chilli, finely diced
* 		2 garlic cloves, finely chopped
* 		1-inch piece of ginger, grated
INSTRUCTIONS
* 		Make the dressing. Add 3 tablespoons of fish sauce, 2 tablespoons of rice vinegar, 2 tablespoons of lime juice, 1 tablespoon of sugar, the chopped garlic, chill and grated ginger to a bowl and mix to combine so that the sugar dissolves. 
* 		Pickle the carrot and cucumber. Add the julienned carrot and cucumber to the bowl with the dressing and set aside for now to pickle.
* 		Mix the topping. Add the ground chicken, chopped scallions, garlic, ginger, 1 tablespoon of fish sauce and 1 teaspoon of salt to a large mixing bowl. Mix well to combine, so that the seasoning is evenly mixed throughout the ground chicken.
* 		Top the tacos. Scoop up a heaped spoonful of the chicken mixture, and spread it into a thin, even layer all over a mini tortilla. Repeat with the rest of the tortillas.
* 		Cook the tacos. Set a large frying pan or skillet over medium-high heat, then drizzle a little olive oil into the pan. Place a tortilla, chicken side down, into the pan. Use a spatula or fish slice to press the tortilla firmly into the pan – this will help the chicken cook quickly, giving it a lovely charred crust, and help it to stick to the tortilla. Let it cook for 4 minutes, then flip, and cook for another minute on the other side. PRO TIP: You can cook a few tacos at the same time, depending on the size of your pan.
* 		Top the tacos. Spread each taco with a little spicy mayo, then top with the pickled carrots and cucumber. Drizzle a little of the nuoc cham dressing on top, then finish with the cilantro, mint, Thai basil and a sprinkling of toasted cashews. Serve with more spicy mayo and nuoc cham on the side and enjoy.
NOTES
INGREDIENT NOTES: Swap the ground chicken for turkey, pork, beef or your favorite plant-based alternative. Use ginger paste instead of fresh ginger if you like (but fresh will taste better!) You could swap fish sauce for a vegan alternative (they’re usually made with mushrooms). If you don’t like cilantro, use more mint and Thai basil. And if you can’t find Thai basil, regular basil is great, or just use more cilantro and mint.
STORAGE INSTRUCTIONS: Once you’ve cooked and topped the tacos, they’re best eaten then and there as the dressing can make the tortilla itself get a little soggy if it sits out for too long (but honestly they’re still delicious so it’s not really a problem for me!) You can prep everything in advance though, and cook and assemble when you’re ready. The nuoc cham dressing will keep for at least 1 week in the fridge, and you can pickle the carrots and cucumber the day before serving. You can also mix the chicken topping in advance and either store it in the fridge and top the tortillas when you’re ready to cook, or, top the tortillas and pop them into the fridge overnight. If you do that, you’ll want to place parchment paper in between them if you stack them. Otherwise, they may go soggy and stick together.
MEAT NOT STICKING TO YOUR TORTILLA?Make sure you really press (smash) the tacos into the pan when you’re cooking them. If you don’t, the tortilla will puff up and start to separate from the meat layer and it won’t stick. You also want to make sure your pan is nice and hot. But at the end of the day, if your meat doesn’t stick to the taco it really isn’t the biggest deal so don’t worry too much! You can still enjoy them in the exact same way.
NUTRITION
* 		Serving Size: 3 tacos
* 		Calories: 655
* 		Sugar: 14.5g
* 		Sodium: 4715.4mg
* 		Fat: 29.6g
* 		Saturated Fat: 5.5g
* 		Unsaturated Fat: 13.4g
* 		Trans Fat: 0g
* 		Carbohydrates: 65.7g
* 		Fiber: 3.8g
* 		Protein: 34.9g
* 		Cholesterol: 127.5mg
